Add acknacki namespace for Acki Nacki blockchain (#182)
ChainAgnostic/namespaces: acknacki/caip10.md

---
namespace-identifier: acknacki-caip10
title: Acki Nacki Blockchain - Account ID Specification
author: Mitja Goroshevsky (@Futurizt)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/namespaces/pull/XXX
status: Draft
type: Standard
created: 2026-04-07
requires: CAIP-2, CAIP-10
---

# CAIP-10

*For context, see the [CAIP-10][] specification.*

## Introduction

> Acki Nacki uses a two-part account addressing scheme. Each account is

Reviewer: I'm a little unclear on what an AccountID means by itself.  An "Externally owned account", for example, like a metamask on EVM: does that work by itself? Can a P2P transfer with no smart contracts involved work from a bare accountID to a bare accountID, and if so, who pays the gas?  

Regardless of whether all this is inherited from "vanilla" TVM, I would spell it out, because as-is it sounds like the only actors on Acki Nacki are what EVM calls "onchain accounts" (controlled/mediated via a deployed contract).

Author: Good catch — this is a genuine source of confusion for EVM-familiar readers. Added an "Account Model" subsection to caip10.md in 40434a1 spelling out:

- Acki Nacki uses an account-based model where **every account is itself a smart contract**; there are no EVM-style EOAs.
- A private key is not an actor on its own — it can only sign external messages addressed to an already-deployed contract whose code chooses whether to accept the signature and execute. A "user wallet" is therefore a deployed contract (typically a multisig).
- P2P value transfers always flow contract-to-contract:
  - **Inside a DApp ID** — gas is drawn from the shared `DappConfig` pool via `gosh.mintshell()` (gasless internal txs).
  - **From outside (external message)** — the receiving contract pays gas from its own balance. A bare AccountID with no deployed contract is uninitialized; incoming messages either bounce or, when accompanied by a `stateInit`, deploy the contract at that address.
  - **Cross-DApp** — native VMSHELL is zeroed at the protocol level; ECC tokens (e.g. SHELL) can cross.
- A bare AccountID is meaningful only as a destination address — it cannot originate a transaction until a contract has been deployed at it.

identified by a **DApp ID** (256 bits) and an **Account ID** (256 bits),
forming a 512-bit composite address called `AccountRouting`.

The DApp ID groups contracts into a logical application. All contracts

> within the same DApp ID share a gas pool (DappConfig) and can transact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within the same DApp ID share ONE (1) gas pool (defined in DappConfig) and can transact
```
(I'm just guessing here-- if I'm wrong, rephrase to be equally explicit but more accurate!)

Author: Correct — applied verbatim in 40434a1. Each DApp ID has exactly one `DappConfig` contract holding the shared SHELL pool that internal calls draw from via `gosh.mintshell()`.

internally without gas costs. The Account ID uniquely identifies the
contract within its DApp.

When a contract is deployed by an external message, its DApp ID equals
its own Account ID (self-originating). When deployed by an internal
message from another contract, it inherits the sender's DApp ID.

## Specification

### Semantics

An Acki Nacki account address consists of:
- **DApp ID**: 256-bit identifier (32 bytes, 64 hex chars)
- **Account ID**: 256-bit identifier (32 bytes, 64 hex chars)

Together they form an `AccountRouting` — the full address used for
message routing and thread assignment in the Acki Nacki network.

### Syntax

The CAIP-10 account address is the concatenation of the lowercase

> hex-encoded DApp ID and Account ID, separated by a period:

Reviewer: I can tell from the examples below that hex-encoded DOESN'T use the `0x` prefix common in other blockchains, but you might want to explicitly call that out here for the lazy EVM-familiar skimmer who doesn't check the examples confronted with this ambiguity!

Author: Added an explicit line in the Syntax section in 40434a1: *"Hex encoding is lowercase and does **not** include the `0x` prefix used in EVM-style addresses; both DApp ID and Account ID are exactly 64 hex characters with no separator."*
